=pod

=head1 Running The C<vss2svn.pl> Script

(NOTE: THIS DOC IS STILL A WORK IN PROGRESS!)

=head2 RUNNING THE SCRIPT

See INSTALL.txt for instructions on how to install the necessary modules for this script to run.
Start a Windows Command Prompt, change to the directory where C<vss2svn.pl> is located, and type C<perl vss2svn.pl --help>. You should get usage information regarding the script's command-line arguments. If you get a Perl error message instead, you have not installed all required modules properly.

The URL you provide for "svnrepo" will become the base URL for all migrated
files, so for the usage example above, B<$/vss/project/foo.c> would become
B<http://svn/repository/url/foo.c>. Plan your migration accordingly so that you
end up with the structure that you want. The URL also cannot contain any
existing files; but as long as the "parent" of the URL is a Subversion
repository, any non-existent directories in the URL will be created.

The B<$SSDIR> environment variable must be set to the directory where your
system srcsafe.ini file is located; see the VSS online help for more info.
The "svn" and "ss" command-line executables must also be in your PATH.

This script is released into the public domain. In case you're wondering
about why the Vss2Svn packages have unused methods, it's because they came
from in-house modules which had more functionality than just this conversion.

I recommend converting only a small branch at first to see how things go.
This process takes a very long time for large databases. I have made liberal

Partway through the migration, you will be presented with a list of all
usernames which performed any checkin operations in the given VSS project.
If you want these user names to be preserved, you must add this list
(including a user "vss_migration" for creating directories and such) to your
Apache AuthUserFile with *blank passwords*. Apache must also *require* that
usernames be passed, otherwise SVN will use anonymous access and you lose
the usernames. So you need an "AuthType Basic" line or the like, as well as
an AuthUserFile. See L<http://svnbook.red-bean.com/svnbook/ch06s04.html#svn-ch-6-sect-4.3>
for more info.

=head2 HOW IT WORKS

