=pod

=head1 Installation Instructions for C<vss2svn.pl>

=head2 INSTALLATION

=head3 vss2svn.pl Script

There is no installation routine for the script itself; simply copy it to any folder such as C<C:\vss2svn>.

=head3 Perl Interpreter

In order to run this script, you must have a fairly recent version of Perl. Only Windows platforms are supported, since that is where the ss.exe executable is located. Actually, the SourceSafe client has indeed been ported to Unix and MacOS, and this script would probably run on those platforms with little modification, but such use is unsupported.

The latest build of ActiveState Perl 5.8 is highly recommended. It is available for free (both as a Windows Installer package and a .tar.gz archive) at:

L<http://www.activestate.com/Products/Download/Download.plex?id=ActivePerl>

If using the Windows Installer version, be sure to specify that you want the location of the Perl executable added to your PATH.

=head3 Required Perl Modules

This script depends on the following Perl modules. All but the first three are included as part of the base ActiveState Perl install.

=over 4

=item * DBI

=item * DBD::SQLite

=item * Time::ParseDate (install "Time-modules" from PPM)

=item * Getopt::Long

=item * Cwd

=item * File::Path

=item * Pod::Usage

=item * Text::Wrap

=item * Win32::TieRegistry

=item * SVN::Client

=item * SVN::Core

=item * SVN::WC

=back

=head3 Installing DBI, DBD::SQLite, and Time-modules:

The easiest way to install these modules is using ActiveState's C<ppm> (programmer's package manager) utility. ActivePerl must already be installed before running C<ppm>. From the Command Prompt, type C<ppm>, or, if using ActivePerl 5.6, C<ppm3>. (Older versions of ActivePerl probably use just C<ppm>, but the syntax may be a bit different).

You should be able to type just C<install DBI>, C<install DBD::SQLite>, and C<install Time-modules> from the C<ppm> prompt. Alternatively, you can perform each install as a separate C<ppm> command, such as C<ppm install DBI>.

   ppm> install DBI
   ====================
   Install 'DBI' version 1.42 in ActivePerl 5.8.3.809.
   ====================
   Downloaded 508164 bytes.
   Extracting 69/69: blib/arch/auto/DBI/Driver_xst.h
   Files found in blib\arch: installing files in blib\lib into architecture
   dependent library tree
   Successfully installed DBI version 1.42 in ActivePerl 5.8.3.809.

   ppm> install DBD::SQLite
   ====================
   Install 'DBD-SQLite' version 0.31 in ActivePerl 5.8.3.809.
   ====================
   Downloaded 125388 bytes.
   Extracting 10/10: blib/arch/auto/DBD/SQLite/SQLite.lib
   Files found in blib\arch: installing files in blib\lib into architecture
   dependent library tree
   Successfully installed DBD-SQLite version 0.31 in ActivePerl 5.8.3.809.

   ppm> quit

=head3 Installing SVN::Client and friends:
Get L<http://vss2svn.tigris.org/files/documents/1735/20299/svn-1.1.3-perl-5.8.zip> or
L<http://subversion.tigris.org/files/documents/15/21737/svn-win32-1.1.4_pl.zip> 

The 1.1.3 package is laid out closer to the ActivePerl layout than the 1.1.4 layout.

For the 1.1.3 package:

=over 4

=item * Extract the package

=item * copy C<bin> to C<C:\Perl\bin> (or wherever ActiveState is installed) 

=item * copy C<site> to C<C:\Perl\site>

=back

For the 1.1.4 package:

=over 4

=item * Extract the package

=item * copy C<svn-win32-1.1.4\perl\SVN\swigpl.dll> and  C<svn-win32-1.1.4\perl\SVN\libsvn_swig_perl-1.dll> to C<C:\Perl\bin> (or wherever ActiveState is installed) 

=item * make a directory C<C:\Perl\site\lib\SVN>

=item * make a directory C<C:\Perl\site\lib\auto\SVN>

=item * copy C<svn-win32-1.1.4\perl\SVN\*.pm> to C<C:\Perl\site\lib\SVN>

=item * copy C<svn-win32-1.1.4\perl\SVN\_*.dll> to C<C:\Perl\site\lib\auto\SVN>

=back

=head3 Setting up your PATH

You should now be able to run C<vss2svn.pl>. The Visual SourceSafe C<ss.exe> and C<perl> should all be in your PATH. To check for this, issue the following three commands from the Command Prompt in the directory where C<vss2svn.pl> is located. To open a Windows Command Prompt, choose C<Run> from the Start Menu (or press Windows Key + R) and type C<cmd>.

  C:\vss2svn> ss help
  C:\vss2svn> perl -v

All three should return with some status information about the version you have installed. If you get an error message instead, modify your PATH environment variable (from Control Panel, choose System, Advanced, Environment Variables or something similar; it doesn't matter whether you use the User or System PATH variable, as they will be merged). While you are there, ensure the C<SSDIR> environment variable points to the root of your VSS database (wherever the F<srcsafe.ini> file is located). After changing these settings, you must close and re-open your Command Prompt.

If you are using ActivePerl 5.6, you may receive a C<DBD::SQLite> fatal error when the script is first run. In that case, try using our pre-built C<DBD::SQLite> binary files instead, available at:

L<http://vss2svn.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectDocumentList?folderID=2788>

In addition, the --utf8 command-line argument (to explicitly convert all comments to UTF-8) requires Perl 5.8 or higher.

After installation, be sure to read the README.TXT file, especially the "Known Problems" section.